## How to Install ##

This document instructs how to install the big3store system.

* Copyright (C) 2016 UP FAMNIT and Yahoo Japan Corporation
* Version 0.3
* Since: January, 2016
* Author: Kiyoshi Nitta <knitta@yahoo-corp.jp>
* Author: Iztok Savnik <iztok.savnik@famnit.upr.si>

### 1. Install Erlang ###

The first task is installing the Erlang/OTP 18 programming language and
the development environment on which most of big3store system code was developed and
tested. The task can be performed by following the instruction on

* [http://erlang.org/doc/installation_guide/INSTALL.html](http://erlang.org/doc/installation_guide/INSTALL.html)

### 2. Install PostgreSQL (and epgsql) ###

The big3store system requires PostgreSQL for storing and indexing
the partitioned sets of triples. We use 
[epgsql](https://github.com/epgsql/epgsql) library
as the Erlang interface to PostgreSQL. Installation of PostgreSQL
and epgsql can be performed by following the instruction on

* [https://github.com/epgsql/epgsql#test-setup](https://github.com/epgsql/epgsql#test-setup)

#### example ####

Default configuration parameters of PostgreSQL may not be adequate for
processing large tables efficiently. Some parameters should be
adjusted, if your server has spare RAM. Below is an example of
*postgresql.conf* on a 256GB memory machine.

    ssl = on
    ssl_ca_file = 'root.crt'
    listen_addresses = '0.0.0.0'
    dynamic_shared_memory_type = none
    checkpoint_segments = 300
    shared_buffers = 128GB
    maintenance_work_mem = 6000000

### 3. Install Big3Store ###

The installation process of big3store consists of the Erlang code
compilation and the documentation compilation. The installation can be performed 
by invoking make command.

#### example ####

All Erlang modules are compiled by entering the following command from
shell. The binary code of big3store is stored in ../ebin directory.

    $ cd $(B3S)/src
    $ make

The most optimized (HIgh Performance Erlang) codes can be generated
for some modules. It might take longer time.

    $ make hipe

Reference API documents (edoc html files) of big3store modules are
generated in ../edoc directory.

    $ make docs

All object and html files generated by the above commands can be removed
by using the following command.

    $ make clean

====> END OF LINE <====
